Types of Variables
There are three types of variables in Java:

1.local variable
2.instance variable
3.static variable

1) Local Variable
      A variable declared inside the body of the method is called local variable. You can use this variable only 
      within that method and the other methods in the class aren't even aware that the variable exists.
      A local variable cannot be defined with "static" keyword.

2) Instance Variable
      A variable declared inside the class but outside the body of the method, is called instance variable. It is not declared as static.
      It is called instance variable because its value is instance specific and is not shared among instances.

3) Static variable
    A variable which is declared as static is called static variable. It cannot be local. 
    You can create a single copy of static variable and share among all the instances of the class. 
    Memory allocation for static variable happens only once when the class is loaded in the memory
    
class A{  
int data=50;//instance variable  
static int m=100;//static variable  
void method(){  
int n=90;//local variable  
}  
}//end of class 

Data Types::
1.Primitive data types: The primitive data types include boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.
2.Non-primitive data types: The non-primitive data types include Classes, Interfaces, and Arrays.

There are 8 types of primitive data types:

boolean data type
byte data type
char data type
short data type
int data type
long data type
float data type
double data type


Data Type	    Default Value	    Default size
boolean	        false	          1 bit
char	          '\u0000'	      2 byte
byte	            0             1 byte
short             0	            2 byte
int	              0	            4 byte
long	            0L       	    8 byte
float	           0.0f	          4 byte
double	         0.0d	          8 byte


Why char uses 2 byte in java and what is \u0000 ?
It is because java uses Unicode system not ASCII code system. The \u0000 is the lowest range of Unicode system. 

  


